Awesome.
All right, so
there's gonna be a bunch of curled files
that we'll need to get from time to time.
So just be prepared.
I will be linking them in the chat.
Hopefully if, you're following along,
you can just copy and paste from here.
It's how we will go into them and
do the same thing together.
As I've said it before we're
gonna start when Adam and
Eve were going from like the very,
very, very beginning and
we gonna slowly build
a foundation that makes sense.
We gonna edit the files together.
We gonna walk through them together and
we gonna hopefully get to the end.
And as I've said earlier, motions where my
chief most important when I learned how to
do it because I was using
a plugin inside of intelligent.
Today, those will be kind of the same
level of importance as other features of
VIM such as file navigation, being able
to do certain sets of actions, macros,
registers, quick fix lists, you name it,
we're gonna kind of go through
the whole gamut here today.
So let's open vim, go to your terminal and
just type in v i m and hit enter.
Alright, so
now what are you supposed to do?
For a lot of people the first time you
open this, you're just like, well,
that's fun.
Lots of WTF, lots of,
well, that's fun, but
I have no idea what I'm
actually doing here.
I don't even know how to use this.
I don't even know how to do anything.
It's telling me to type all these things
to be able to go find stuff, and I'm like,
okay, check health.
Can i do push ups?
My goodness, i have all these like,
warnings and stuff.
How am i going to errors and just feels
like i don't even know what I'm doing now
everything's gone all of a sudden.
It just feels weird, right?
Like, this is why when
people open up vim for
the first time they
generate Sha 256 codes.
It's because you just start jamming
the keyboard until something happens, so
let's quit.
By the way,
I didn't show you how to quit, press.
Okay.
Hey, Chuck.
Hey, don't tell anyone.
Okay, this is kind of a secret.
Don't tell anyone.
It's going to be this :q.
Hit enter.
When you do that you will leave in.
If that doesn't work for
you try the bathtub.
Just get it out, right.
It's, this is such a meme.
I came and believe it's such a meme, but
every single day you'll see someone
not being able to exit vim.
And it's like hilarious.
There was recently a guy with a Mac
book pro with the touch bar and
his escape key quit working.
And then he goes like
permanently stuck in vim.
He had no idea what to do.
And this was just a couple of weeks ago.
It was fantastic.
He wasn't technically stuck in vim,
he just didn't know how to escape.
Anyways, so if we could get a quick crowd
participation moment I know everyone just
left but
I can always jump over to the chat.
What were you expecting to
see when you open up vim?
Does anyone have anything?
Anyone from the zoom class?
What were you expecting to see,
when you typed in v-i-m?
>> An empty document.
>> An empty document?
Okay.
I bet a lot of people wanted
to see a file tree, right?
Was it weird not seeing that?
When you open up VS code, you see a file
tree you feel a little bit safer.
You see something on the side that
kind of orient you to where you're at.
You got nothing right?
And it felt confusing.
Someone's had an empty screen
from chat line numbers.
Yeah, maybe line numbers,
maybe something, just anything but
it feels super disorienting when you
see nothing you're familiar with.
That's gonna be a pretty
regular occurrence for a while.
Okay?
We'll try to make it better, but
in the end, it's gonna be pretty regular.
Al right, so let's move on.
Let's actually use vim this time.
All right, I hope everyone's ready.
So remember,
we're going to do the basic movements and
all that here in a little bit.
But I'm going to just kind of walk you
through just doing your first edits.
So let's all open up vim together and
do vim test.js being an empty directory,
it doesn't really matter.
Just don't be in a directory that has
a test.js or a test any language you like,
right, I'm just gonna use js because
I assume most people have a vague
familiarity with JavaScript at this point.
So when I hit Enter,
I'll be presented a different screen.
Now notice that there is
at least a cue this time.
down here in the bottom.
You do see test.js.
Okay, at least we feel a little bit more
oriented, but I see no line numbers,
I see nothing else, it feels confusing.
So let's just, write a for loop together.
So I'm gonna start typing, f o r.
Okay, why is that not working?
What?
We all just type f o r but
now everything's confusing.
Okay, open squirrely brace.
My goodness, nothing's working.
What's happening?
That's because you were in the wrong mode.
So when I type in f o r, you'll notice
that like, it just nothing happens, right?
Okay, we got something yay.
Yeah, what just happened there?
Here let me exit for a quick second.
You need to go into insert mode.
So everyone, press i.
Now when you press I,
what you'll see down here is insert mode.
This is letting you know where you're at.
So now, you know, you're in test.js, and
you're insert mode, insert mode will for
the most part act just like anything else.
And by the way, I do use the Vortec.
If you can't tell there's
no ASDFs right here.
It's all AOEUs.
And so
that might be a little bit different.
So if you see me typing something weird,
that's probably what's happening.
So when you're in insert mode,
you can freely type.
One thing that won't work.
So if I start typing, for,
there's not usually that many semi-colons,
I don't think.
When I'm doing this and I press enter,
it will obviously give me a big indent,
now that's a tab.
You don't want a tab as you were typing
it you probably got a tab, I don't know
if you want an eight space tab if you do
I'm power to you, but I don't use that.
I like four spaces.
This feels odd.
The colorings all wrong.
But hey, at least an auto invented for
me, right?
So what happened if I use shift key and
like move around with my arrows?
It's not, okay.
I don't man that feels funny, right?
Like you can't highlight text.
So what is this insert mode
that just feels wrong, right?
So let's jump back here and let's first
talk a little bit about modes honestly for
a second.
So normal mode is where you edit text,
you modify it with delete,
and yanking and pasting in and
putting it all over the place.
Insert mode is where you type new text.
So those are two different ones.
And then there's another
mode called visual mode.
There actually should be another
mode here, but for whatever reason,
my GitHub Pages did not
update I'll just mention it.
So there probably is
a couple missing items here.
But there's visual mode.
Visual mode is equivalent to you using
your mouse and highlighting a section of
text or using Ctrl and Shift and
the arrow keys to highlight the text.
And then you're able to yank it,
delete it or
perform operations on top
of that highlighted region.
So it's a lot like using your mouse.
And so
there's one more mode called command mode.
When you're in normal mode and you
press colon, you can execute a command.
That's called command mode.
We'll use that from time to time.
But those are your basic modes.
There's some other ones.
Just don't worry about it.
If thing if you get into a goofy mode and
you don't really know what's happening,
press escape.
If that doesn't work, start doing
colon q until you're out of them and
then just jump right back in.
You will learn how to get out of things
a little bit better as time goes on.
So, there we get we're in insert mode.
So how do you get out of insert mode?
You can press Escape,
Escape will make your cursor go from that
thin cursor if you're using Neo Vim.
If you're using regular vim,
I believe you'll have a thick cursor.
You'll now notice that down here at
the bottom, there's no more Insert right,
that went away.
You're now back into normal mode.
This may not feel normal.
But trust me, it's very normal.
It's just really normal.
Just accept it.
So anyways, so now there's other ways you
could actually get out of insert mode you
can use control C you'll
see me using that a bunch.
Control C does have a small implication in
a very specific use case that doesn't make
it the same as escape, but we're not
gonna probably even run into that today.
There is also Ctrl+(,
which will also leave insert mode.
But for the most part either use escape
Ctrl+C Ctrl+(, whichever one you want for
today, whatever one feels the most
comfortable, because we can change it and
we'll change it to the way you want it to
be here soon, just not at this moment.